# Easy Meals Finder
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description:
The Easy Meals Finder is a web up built with Python, Flask, HTML CSS and JavaScript. The main function of the application is to allow users to search for meal recipes using a keyword and view the ingredients and recipes for the meals. They then have the option to add the meals to a list of their favourites and use this list to generate a shopping list.

The app relies on an API integration with the Spoonacular API found at https://spoonacular.com/food-api/docs, which is used to fetch the information around each recipes including the title, ingredients used in the recipe, cooking instructions and the type of meal eg breakfast, lunch or dinner. I opted to use an existing API rather than building a custom database of meals and recipes because of the time commitment it would take to curate hundreds of meals and their associated recipes and ingredients. Some of the challenges I have faced however is the limited number of calls I can make to the API when using the free plan which has led to my code occasionally breaking as it returns a message that payment is required. This can however be resolved by relying on an open source dataset or API or alternatively building a way to crawl the internet and search for recipes that have information in a usable format.

The app is built as a web app although at the moment I am only running it locally using a local install of python, a virtual environment and PHPmyadmin to manage the databases using MYSQL DB. It is possible to containerise and deploy the final app with Docker or a similar service. However since this is for demonstration purposes, I have decided not to host the application publicly at the moment.
Below is a simple walkthrough of the application and the different functions.
When the user visits the website and loads the homepage, they are able to view a randomly selected meal that they can start preparing right away. This random meal contains the image, title, ingredients and instructions for the recipe. This data is pulled by a request to the Spoonacular API and displayed on a page called home.html.
Users can also navigate to the search page on search.html in order to search for specific terms be it ingredients or the name of a recipe. They do this using a form that pushes a POST request to the API and receives a json file with the required information. The results are then displayed in the search bar and users can go on to click through and see details on the recipe including ingredients and cooking method.

I have styled the elements in the CSS file in order to make them responsive especially for phone and tablet screens. This is in consideration that many users would probably be using phones to look up meals. This assumption is made because of the data on mobile versus desktop usage. Also it makes for a smoother user experience if the app has been shared via messaging or social media, which are channels primarily used on mobilie devices.

From the recipe page, they are able to mark the specific recipe as a favourite or remove a favourite from their list. These preferences on favourites are stored in a database that tracks the user and recipe ids. The application uses Javascript and AJAX calls to track the recipe id being displayed and add it to the database as soon as the button is clicked. A list of the user’s favourites can be viewed on the favourites.html page and they are also able to remove items from this page or click on a result to view the full recipe. Using the recipe.html file that uses Jinja to render the information the user needs.

The saving to favourite feature is only available to logged in users and this means that there is a registration and login page that are tied to a database that tracks user names and passwords. There is also a database that tracks the user's shopping list and the ingredients and quantities on their favourite list. However, users who have not logged in are still able to view the random meal on the homepage and even search for recipes using keywords.

Some features that are yet to be completed are the shopping list curating and displaying all the ingredients as well as preparing the final project to be deployed on a cloud server so that users can engage with it. I am also looking for an alternative API end point preferably open source to use to query meals and ingredients since the current one is a paid service.
